## TopGoaler

TopGoaler is an awesome 'competitive' task app that helps you achieve goals together with your friends. 



## Repo Directory

Our project consists of three major part: the client side app, the server side app and the documentations. They are in the `client`, `server` and `docs` directories under root respectively. 

The `client` directory include several config files and the app entry point (`App.js`). Several assets and resources are contained within `assets` and the inside `app`, there are shared components, utils and subordinate directories (`components` and `tests`). All other components for this app are located inside `components` and the corresponding tests are in `tests`.

The `server` directory as well include config files and the app entry point (`server.js`). API implementations are mostly located inside `routes`, while unit tests are written in `tests`.

The `docs` directory is the root directory for our Github pages. Documentations are generated and organized inside `docs`.

The hidden `.circleci` directory contains the config for our CiecleCI Continuous Integration settings and workflow.

## Setup

Run `cd client; npm install` to get all the dependencies for client. Then do the same for `server`. 

Then in `client`, run `expo start` to get your app running. 

To run the server, use `cd server; npm install; node server.js`.

By default, the app tries connecting to the server deployed at localhost:8001. However, this app can be configured to run on different servers as well. To run the app anywhere else, change `serverAddr` to the desired address in client/config.js (for example, "http://qianmengchen.com:8001").

Download 'Expo' client on your iOS/Android device to run it natively (over the cloud too). 

VSCode is the suggested editor. Please use it in development to make sure lintings are followed.

## Contribute

Before implementing a new task / bug fix / refactor etc..., please first mark the corresponding trello card as "in progress". If there's no corresponding card, please create one for yourself.

Then make a new branch for the implementation:

```bash
git checkout -b branch_name
```

For branch_name, please follow the format:

- type-card_number

For example, task-30, bug-21, refactor-25. 



After implementation, push the commited changes to Github

```bash
git push [--set-upstream ...]
```



When the work is complete and already pushed up, create a pull request on Github to merge it into master branch. We require 2 peer reviews and passing CI before merging in.



## Documentation

The documentation of our frontend and backend APIs and components can be found at the Github pages website of this repository:

[https://qianmengchen.github.io/TopGoaler](https://qianmengchen.github.io/TopGoaler/)

All of our documentations are generated by JSdoc. For components, we emphasized them as classes and focused mainly on their properties. This is a common practices for React components in the community as the internal functions and states are implementation details which are not supposed to be exposed.

## Testing

### Test Directories
For Report B, please find our tests here:

- Frontend test directory: [client/app/tests](client/app/tests)
- Backend test directory: [server/tests](server/tests)


### How frontend testing works

Frontend tests check rendering with snapshots. Snapshots are saved renders that are the most recently accepted. It is used to make sure that the UI does not change unexpectedly. If changes are made, the test will fail and the snapshot must be updated by either pressing 'u' in the interactive watch or with the command:

```bash
jest -u
```

Frontend tests also check for core components, such as the number of buttons and icons. We also check for interaction behavior, such as whether button presses invoke the correct methods and whether input text is dependent on state, etc. 

### How backend testing works

For backend, we use Supertest on top of Jest for sending mock API calls to our mock server instance. We currently cover the three scenarios as mentioned in the project spec: database CRUD flow, login flow, and access control flow. 

### Write unit tests

Please write unit tests in /app/tests. Each test file should be at the exact same relative path in /app/tests as the path of js file being tested in /app/components, and it should have the same file name except the suffix should be .test.js.

For example:

For js file /app/components/App/App.js, the corresponding test file should be /app/tests/App/App.test.js.

Our unit tests are performed using jest and enzyme. Please find their documentations at:

https://jestjs.io/docs/en/getting-started

https://airbnb.io/enzyme/docs/api/

### Run unit tests

Please use the following command to run unit tests. This is the same command in our Continuous Integration. So please ensure that you pass this command before creating a pull request:

```bash
# Run this in both /client and /server
npm test
```

or

```bash
npm run test
```

Due to the quantity of unit tests, the above commands could run very slowly especially on our free CI server. To expedite the testing process, use command:

```bash
npm run CI-test
```



### Debug unit tests

When writing / debugging unit tests, please run the following command in terminal (perferably in the terminal inside VS Code so that you can see our code and the unit tests output at the same time):

```bash
npm run watch
```

With this command, the unit tests will rerun every time you change something and save the progress. Also, the watch command is configuered to display all console.log messages which makes it easier to debug.

### Check unit tests coverage

Though currently we do not enforce a 100% code coverage, it is still a good idea to cover as much as possible, at least for the part you are currently testing. To generate a coverage report, use the following command:

```bash
npm run coverage
```

This command will generate an html report at /coverage/Icov-report/index.html. This html report enables you to check what coverage cases you are missing.

### Update unit test snapshots

```
npm run update
```

## Contributors

Qianmeng Chen

Pochao Yang

Zhouheng Sun

Amir Saad

Brian Be

Bingxin Zhu
